Hello and Welcome to the Overview of Data Server.
We have 3 goals for this section: we're going to define and identify Data Server functionality,
Identify how to determine a data source for a .twb workbook, and locate the logs generated by the Data Server process.
Now in this section, we're going to take a deeper look into Data Server.
Data Server allows users to have a single source for their data, helping to cut down on duplicate data when using Tableau
Visualizations, by publishing data sources to one central location.
and you can see here on the screen a little bit about how data server interacts.
So let's take a look at what data server is involved in.
Data Server handles published data sources. You can see that's bolded and highlighted here because that is its functionality.
Data server is not involved if the data source is embedded, whether it’s a live data source, extracted
a flat file, or relational database.  It only gets involved if it’s a published data source.
A couple things to note about Data Server: it allows sharing of metadata,
and provides indirect deduplication of data.
Additionally, Data Server is accessed via HTTP.
Now, because Data Server is contacted over HTTP,
it can be vulnerable to misconfigured forward proxies in the customer environment.
The documentation on configuring a forward proxy server is largely there to help Data Server run smoothly.
Now, let's take a look at the connection information we can find for Data Server.
now one thing to keep in mind is .twb file workbooks are just XML files, so you can view them in any text editor.
So first this workbook that we're looking athas an embedded Data Source.  You can see the information highlighted here
which will allow it to connect to the SQL server clearly.
Now this is a workbook with that embedded data source that is shown here. You can see
the highlighted information does show our connection authentication, the class, the DB name and other information that's important.
The second workbook that you see here
is a workbook that connects to a published copy of that same data source.
So while the name of the data source is the same, the server information
is for the Tableau server apc.tsi.lan, and the class is SQL proxy.
Nowhere in this workbook will you find details on the Microsoft SQL server
that has the actual data.
For that you will need to look at the data source XML.
You can see the SQL information here. So Data Server is essentially acting as a proxy for published data source requests.
The requesting process will attempt to contact Data Server and since this request is an HTTP call, it has to go through the Gateway process.
Once the request has been routed to Data Server, Data Server will generate the final query and send it on to the right place
either tabprotosrv for contacting external databases or communicating directly with Data Engine.
contacting external databases or communicating directly with the danger
You can see here in example of what data server request looks like in fiddler trace.
Now, logs for the data server process are located in different locations for Linux and Windows, as we've discussed in some prior
courses and you can see on the screen here the location for Linux and Windows
This is where you'll be able to find information
on the Data Server process and if there were any issues that took place in those logs